It's time to talk about decorators another key term in Python.
And we've actually seen decorators before.
Do you remember when we were building classes.
I taught you that there was a class method and a static method.
And I said hey don't don't worry about this we'll talk about this later.
Well this is now.
Later decorators look like this.
They have the ad sign and then some sort of name following it.
But in order for us to fully understand what decorators are we have to talk about functions in Python
and why they're so powerful.
This is the neat thing about Python in Python functions are what we call first class citizens.
That is they can be passed around like variables.
They can be an argument inside of a function.
They act just like well variables.
Let me show you.
If I create a Hello Function which frankly is completely useless because all it does is say if you if
I do this remember I said functions are pretty much just variables in Python.
Again something that is not always the case with all programming languages.
So if I wanted to I can say greet equals to hello so that if I print greet and I run this I get Hello
What if I just pass Hello like this if I run this well I get the function location in memory so I'd
have to use greet like this and run it right.
We have to call the Hello Function OK what if we do this.
What if I say delete Hello.
A keyword in Python that deletes that function.
What do you think will happen.
Let's see if I run this.
Is that what you expected.
Did you expect Grete to still work.
The interesting thing about Python is that I create.
Hello.
And this is now created in memory.
When we get to line four I say hey greet is going to point to Hello.
So hello can still be called down here I can still say hello because hello is the name of the function
that points to that location and memory but when I do delete Hello All it does is say hey I'm going
to delete this function this name reference to this function that's in memory however because greet
a whole nother variable is still pointing to this function I'm going to delete the hello word so if
I go Hello like this I'm going to get an air name Hello is not defined however the greet is still pointing
in memory to this location.
So python is smart enough to say Hey you told me to delete Hello I'll delete the name Hello.
But I'm not going to delete the function because Grete is still pointing to it.
So functions in Python act just like variables do their first class citizens we can also pass functions
around inside of arguments.
Right.
If I say hello.
And then this hello receives another function that calls let's say function like this.
Well I can create a great function lets say define greet and this function is just going to print still
here.
Now in here if I call hello with greet or just so we're clear let's just say a equals to Hello greet.
And if I print a what will happen that still works.
Because what happens is I say Hey call the function Hello OK I'm calling the function Hello.
With the argument.
Greet.
So we go here and we say hey run function and what's function we want to call this function right.
Because we have these brackets.
So we jump to what function is which in our case is great.
So we go over here and say hey just print this we didn't have to call it in here because the hello function
calls it for us
so why did I just teach you all of that.
What does that have to do with decorators decorators are only possible because of these features.
This ability of functions to act like variables act like first class citizens in Python.
And when we start learning about decorators underneath the hood they're using this power of functions
now and then upcoming videos we're going to talk about how to create our own what they mean and expand
on this idea of a decorator but here is a short form of what decorators do decorators supercharge our
function if we had are let's say hello function here by adding some sort of a decorator like this we
can supercharge our function and add extra functionality to it it lets the Python interpreter know I
want this Hello Function to have some extra features but let's explore this topic a little bit more
in the next video.